Interned objects
As noted above, when the reference count of an object goes to zero, its marked eligible for garbage
collection. There is an interesting exception: the “interned” values. Consider:
i=5
del i
i now has a reference count decreased by 1. If there are no other references to the integer 5 elsewhere in
your program, its reference count would become 0, making it eligible for garbage collection. However, in
Python, small integers (typically between -5 and 256) are interned, meaning they are reused and never
garbage collected, so the reference count change for the integer 5 will not lead to its deallocation.
In Python, small integers (typically in the range of -5 to 256) are implemented as "interned" objects. This
means that instead of creating a new object each time a small integer is needed, Python uses a pre-
existing, pre-allocated object for that integer value. These interned integers are, in a sense, singleton
objects for their respective values, and any reference to such an integer actually points to the same object
in memory.
Interning Details
1. Interned objects are singletons: When you assign a small integer to a variable, Python doesn't create a
new integer object; it assigns a reference to the existing interned object representing that integer. This is
efficient in terms of both memory usage and execution speed, as it reduces the number of integer objects
that need to be created and managed.
2. Attributes: Even though integers in Python are objects and have attributes and methods (you can use
`dir(1)` to see them), the way Python handles small integers does not affect how you interact with them.
You can use these integers just like any other number in Python, and the fact that they are interned is
mostly transparent to the user.
3. Pointers: Variables assigned with small integers essentially hold pointers to these pre-allocated integer
objects. When you do `a = 1`, `a` holds a pointer to the interned object for `1`.
4. Universally Available: These interned integer objects are created at the start of the Python interpreter
and are available globally. Any reference to a small integer in any part of a Python program will point to
the same interned object.
5. Comparison and Identity: Because all references to a given small integer point to the same object, both
equality (`==`) and identity (`is`) checks work the same for these interned integers. For example, `(1 ==
1)` and `(1 is 1)` both evaluate to `True`, not just because the values are equal, but also because both
expressions are referring to the same object in memory.
Beyond Small Integers
For integers outside of the small integer range, Python may create new integer objects each time.
However, the behavior can be implementation-specific and may vary. In such cases, two variables with
the same integer value might not necessarily point to the same object, and an identity check (`is`) could
evaluate to `False`.
130
